hello everyone and welcome to the
Stellar open protocol discussion so
in these meetings
we discuss core advancement proposals
aka caps
these are technical specs that suggest
changes to the Stellar protocol
necessary to allow the protocol to
continue to evolve to meet the needs of
the ecosystem
and we live stream these meetings so
that anyone who's interested in watching
they can follow along although i do want
they can follow along although I do want
to know it is a technical discussion so
if you are watching
you may want to take a look at the caps
themselves and they're linked to in the
show description
also we do keep an eye on the
discussion box and your comments there
they do help us inform our decisions
going forward
today's discussion will focus on two
caps and our goal is really
as as it is generally in these meetings
to try to resolve some outstanding
questions about them
so we may not address questions that you
ask directly but if some relevant
ones come in i may actually try to
ones come in I may actually try to
incorporate them into the conversation
so as i said we are focusing on caps and
so as I said we are focusing on caps and
this meeting is just part of the cap
life cycle so generally caps are
discussed on the Stellar depth mailing
list
there's a link to that mailing list in
the event description for anyone who's
interested in joining the discussion
then caps are drafted and iterated on
based on feedback and suggestions
and they end up here in this protocol
meeting and based on what happens in
this meeting
they may be put up for a vote by the cap
committee who decides whether or not to
accept a rejected cap
which point they move into final comment
period so there's everyone has a
last chance to raise questions on the
Stellar debt mailing list and if it
makes it through final comment period a
cap is implemented into a major Stellar
core release
then there's still one final step which
is that every major release every
protocol upgrade
is voted on by the validators and has to
be accepted before it's applied to the
network
and so all of that is to say this is a
long process where there's a lot of
public participation
and ultimately the network decides to
accept major protocol changes so
enough preamble today we are discussing
cap 21 and cap 40.
both of these lay the groundwork for
building payment channels on Stellar so
payment channels
they allow multiple parties to securely
transact off chain and periodically
settle on chain
and among other things that could make
it easier to build high volume use cases
on Stellar so
if today's discussion seems dense at any
point keep that in mind
these caps make technical changes geared
towards payment channels and payment
channels
are important for scaling network
throughput
so without further ado we will look at
the actual caps we're going to start by
talking about cap 21.
this proposal generalizes the time
balance field in transaction
to support other conditions including
conditions that relax sequence number
checking
and provide relative time locks and
since we last discussed this there were
some small technical changes
there was also the addition of extra
signers and i think we should start
signers and I think we should start
there
the new precondition extra signers has
been added lee can you just explain
what that
why why that edition happened and sort
of talk us through any questions that
you have about it
yes so extra signers was
initially added to
support stateless htlc's so the
ability to
just to say that this transaction
needs to be signed by
or a hash needs to be included with this
transaction to make it valid
without having to store that hash as a
signer on the account so right now you
can use the hashtag signer
to to say that you need this you need
a hash
included with transactions to be able to
transact with an account
and instead of needing to store that
on the account it can now just be stored
within the transaction
and then second it's it's also being
used
for cat 40 which we'll talk about later
would help for me to like overview the
other changes to cap 21
just because you know i think it was
just because you know I think it was
already people were kind of generally
okay with it the last time we discussed
it and so a lot of these changes are
kind of
in response to leads like specific
implementation and experience like
things that just came up because of
implementing it
i think that would be super helpful yeah
I think that would be super helpful yeah
great when you're working so yeah
so one of the changes
is that the previous version didn't
really talk about the
results and there's new failure modes
now because you've got these multiple
preconditions and so you might have sort
of multiple preconditions failing
and in particular you know you could
have preconditions failing
because it's too early or preconditions
failing because it's too late or both
and so what we basically said is if a
transaction can
never be valid again then even if
there's other things that are too early
we'll still call it too late
and we'll give the result code tx2 early
only in the case that
there is the possibility that the
transaction can be valid again if if
resubmitted at some later time
so basically if you have said a thing
that's too early and a thing that's too
late that gets combined to a too late
error
and so that fits it into like the
existing error codes and i think
existing error codes and I think
you know preserves the sort of the
intuition if you're too late you can
never resubmit and if you're too early
there might be a chance of of
resubmitting at some later point
so other things that we changed
there's some some some
clarifications oh yeah the
the
the we kind of rearranged the stuff
that's dangling off
the account of the account entry
in the ledger because it turns out that
kind of the sponsorship
information is only there
if you're actually sponsoring things
and so otherwise it's it's currently
null or it's
a v1 extension instead of v2 so we
changed that into a pointer and we just
kept the v2 data structure as a thing
that dangles off
the v3 now optionally if you're
actually using it
and then the final change is that we
didn't talk about
we previously i hadn't mentioned
we previously I hadn't mentioned
what to do
to an account that didn't have an
account
entry extension v3 and so the answer was
just
now we just say pretend all the fields
are zero right so that means like it's
as if like the
the last time it was mod the last ledger
was modified in time and stuff
are zero and that's okay because even
though that means anything
can anything that's like a relative
delay will execute any time
you would use these things it would be
on some new account in some new protocol
and so therefore
there would be some other transaction on
the account knew that zero wouldn't
matter
so again it's just to be precise i don't
so again it's just to be precise I don't
think it really
matters but it's important to like say
that it's something just to make sure
you know everything is deterministic
and fully specified
so i think that's pretty much all we
so I think that's pretty much all we
needed to change right
forget anything lee
no i think that that was everything that
no I think that that was everything that
we listed
and i think specifically to do with you
and I think specifically to do with you
know the extension like I'm really
interested to hear
what nico siddharth john what you folks
think
of this and how this might impact
core
well the first thing i'll say is you
were the one who kind of just prototyped
out this implementation so what was
your experience doing it
so i haven't tried the new change so
so I haven't tried the new change so
the diff the difficulty that i
definitely
hit with the initial proposal
was that there are assumptions made
in core
that the sponsors
the v2 extension is only present when
the account's involved in sponsorship
and
that shows up a lot in the tests more
than the actual application code
so i guess if call makes that assumption
so I guess if call makes that assumption
in tests are there any other products or
anything else that makes that assumption
that might be interpreting xdr
comes to mind
i think i think please continue i think
I think I think please continue I think
the new proposal
which which says that you know the v2 is
still only there when the sponsorship
i think that works from my perspective
from my from my perspective here like i
don't think it really matters that much
i don't think it's really worth fighting
I don't think it's really worth fighting
about much honestly
in the grand scheme of things like i
could see some merits to this now that
we have all these dangling things
maybe it would be nice to every once
in a while you know smash them all down
into one
single dangling thing then dangle
some more stuff off of it for a while
and then smush them all down again at a
later date
again i i can see merit to that
again I can see merit to that
i think in terms of like how core
I think in terms of like how core
treats these things
core basically like the process that
we've used for upgrading these
extensions
is basically like
there's like two parts to it like one
thing is like once it comes to existence
will never unwind that
so like if you sponsor an account and
then remove the sponsorship you'll still
have the v2 extension
so the tests most of them have these
assumptions about
when will these things appear and that's
what you were running into
not about whether they will be there or
not period
the other thing is that we are kind
we already kind of made this executive
decision when
when we added the sponsorship stuff that
like
imagine that you didn't have any native
liabilities so you shouldn't have had a
v1 extension
but then you participated in the
sponsorship now you have a v2 extension
and we just said like okay well in that
case we'll just inject the v1 extension
and set it to zero and it's no different
from the case where you would add
liabilities and then subsequently remove
them so
from my perspective like core is
designed in such a way that like either
solution is completely reasonable
i think like in terms of the total
I think like in terms of the total
net implementation changes it would
probably be less
if we dangled it but the size of the
extension would be less if we didn't
so like so just to be clear
you're okay with the current state so
the current state is like a right hybrid
right where v3
includes v1 but dangles off v2 so that's
kind of
that that's there's basically this thing
called sponsor info
that is a pointer to an account
extension v2 but that's inside
the account entry extension v3
yeah that would be fine i mean again
yeah that would be fine I mean again
like it doesn't
it doesn't really matter but like if
you're if you're gonna do that
then the marginal additional cost
of dangling the v3 extension off the v2
extension is even smaller
because the four extra bytes are
appearing in either case
so you're saying that there's no
situation where
it's important that the v2 be null
correct
okay so well anyway i guess i don't
okay so well anyway I guess I don't
really
i don't care what i really want is for
I don't care what I really want is for
cap 21 to make it in so like what's the
what's the best structure to like make
this happen or
is the current one i mean i i think it's
is the current one I mean I think it's
like
I'm I'm the one that always brings this
back up you know as soon as you
so you know the current proposal in a
way is kind of this weird hybrid thing
like that is
neither of the nested one neither the
you know the fully
like represented one so i say like
like represented one so I say like
either we consider one or the other but
not this kind of
half broken one because you get
basically like
the reason why you want nesting in the
first place that's kind of the whole
rationale that we have in the
in the repo actually and why we are
doing nesting is because it makes it
easier for people
to they don't have to change their
code
right like if you depend on on let's say
sponsorship
you keep referring to sponsorship the
same way you don't have to
add the non you know conditions like
oh if it's a v3
i need to go look for sponsorship over
I need to go look for sponsorship over
there instead of over here right
and so there's never it's never going to
be useful to take something that has
sponsorship info
and then delete the sponsorship info
because or to kind of create new
accounts that just
don't have any sponsorship info because
they've never sponsored anything
that's the question it sounded like lee
kind of wanted this in order to make a
lot of the tests
easier to port oh well does it act
there's not going to be easier hold on
wait
let me clarify something there the v3
extension will always
exist for a newly created account right
that's right
but the sponsorship info might not
whereas like and it so it sounded like
currently there's a cal like in a lot of
tests there's like accounts that don't
have sponsorship info and they think
they never get upgraded to v2 and
i don't know that this is somehow i
I don't know that this is somehow i
don't know lee do you want to
this is primarily i did this primarily
this is primarily I did this primarily
in response to your feedback lee so i
don't know if
you want to jump in and yeah so that so
that there's two so i think so far we've
that there's two so I think so far we've
only really talked about the impact on
core and
it sounded like from what john was was
saying like there's not really a big
impact on core
and i think the concern that i had
and I think the concern that I had
around the impact on tests is maybe
misplaced
but the second impact is the impact on
the ecosystem which i think is what niko
the ecosystem which I think is what niko
was highlighting to
and that is you know everyone who passes
this xtr will need to look for
fields in the v1 and the v2 in two
places they'll need to look for it
either in the v1 or v2 or
in v3 if we move it and i think
in v3 if we move it and I think
that's
that's maybe something that eric well
like the horizon team
would you know that's something that
they would be having to deal with
basically anyone who passes the xtr has
to know to look for it in all these
different places
which can also be a little bit of a foot
gun for people who are upgrading
because they may not realize that this
field has been duplicated into a new
place
yeah although we can mechanically fix it
with
like any place that gets translated to
json for example we can just
mechanically always move the
sponsorship info out
yeah i don't think we should be making
yeah I don't think we should be making
any decisions based on the effects
of downstream applications
consuming ledger entries realistically
we're talking about
one maybe two consumers so
you know we can we can talk to them okay
so i think that
so I think that
i mean to my mind the two things that
I mean to my mind the two things that
make the most sense are to either keep
the
cap 21 draft exactly as is or to flatten
out
the sponsorship info the way it was in
the previous
revision of the draft so it's just all
one big
like v3 structure wait
well you're saying that so I'm looking
at the current master
is that what you call the latest draft
because this one is the hybrid one that
has like this half
flattened version exactly and so I'm
saying either we just keep that
or we should fully flatten it just
like instead of having
so no but that's actually the one that
doesn't make sense the one that's half
flattened either you're doing a nesting
fully nested
right where you extend d3 inside v2 okay
or you're doing the full flattening okay
and then let's do that how about the
full flattening how about i just
full flattening how about I just
instead of making that up instead of
making is having
having sponsor info be a pointer to like
an account entry
or account extension v2 how about i
just take the fields of account entry v2
and make put them in line
inside the county account entry v3 or
just put the whole
v2 structure in there
yeah i know i i don't really care
yeah I know I don't really care
honestly flatten it or
or fully nest it but yeah the hybrid
thing i think is kind of like the worst
thing I think is kind of like the worst
of all the worlds
i propose that i will so i propose to
I propose that I will so I propose to
just basically
revert to what it was before if lee
is okay with that
what was it before yesterday it was
nested before no no it was it was
flattened before it was just
the fields at the fields of v1 and v2
structures were just inside the v3
structure
yeah the things that i do think that
yeah the things that I do think that
flatten every time we flatten structures
it involves
changes in a bunch of places that we may
or may not understand
and i'd rather not do it if we can avoid
it
so are you advocating for the nested
version foodie nested is kind of the
as a default is safe
because we don't definitely require the
fewest changes to core because we
already have
well not just score but like yeah it's
not just core it's also right like the
you know
anything out there that is actually
using sponsor like looking up
sponsorship let's say
so what about what about having them
not as pointers but just
putting the v1 and v2 structures into v3
so then
any xtr library can just kind of extract
those things by type
no but it's the same problem you have to
you have to switch
like you have to change your code that
still
compiles and still looks like it's
working but
it will just fail miserably when you
actually run into that
like existing code it's always the same
problem right kind of like the
the problem we you know we created
with the
what was it the next accounts
right like
but i would argue that like mux
but I would argue that like mux
accounts is precisely because it's way
worse mexican was way worse because
of course people use accounts a lot more
right but here we make it even more
french so that's kind of why
you know if if you're looking at like
the edge case of the edge case and you
hope that people are going to
do the right thing i think it's
do the right thing I think it's
actually less likely
because i mean the problem is that the
because I mean the problem is that the
nested is just like much much harder to
program
to right it's like you're literally like
fighting with like the right-hand margin
of your
of your text editor all the time
where it's like you have to put like
line breaks in the middle of like you
know
expressions that contain dots and arrows
to access fields so it's just like
you know we're getting the point that
we're now we're gonna access fields that
are like you know
four or five or six
deep in structures it's just kind of
like
painful for the programmers so what so
yes there might be like a little bit
more
stuff to do in transitional though i
would argue that actually if like we
do our xcr stuff right it's actually not
that hard because you can automate a lot
of this stuff
and so i'd rather just have a little
bit of pain up front and just have
something that's like much nicer to
program to
in the long run so when i when i wrote
in the long run so when I when I wrote
the prototype
i actually used the nested version
I actually used the nested version
i didn't use the flattened version
I didn't use the flattened version
because
it was easier to do an essence i i
it was easier to do an essence I i
mean you you put the account entry v3
you didn't use the security put the
account entry v3 inside the country v2
yeah I'm pretty sure that's what i did
yeah I'm pretty sure that's what I did
and it was it wasn't that bad
how wide what's your what's the width of
your text editor
i mean i use softwrap
I mean I use softwrap
the thing is that david like the the if
you want to have a helper function
to avoid typing all this stuff you can
right like it's it
that helpful function is optional in the
nested world it's mandatory
in the non-nested world
and we already have all right okay
whatever I'm overruled like no but
that's gonna vote
you guys are all wrong but i'll do it
this way i'll rewrite the cap to do this
you know generations generations of
like poor Stellar programmers are gonna
have to be typing structures six nested
deep because like
whatever you guys are worried about a
non-existent problem but fine
it's more important to get cap 21
accepted so
fine it sounds like a reasonable
concession
there we are going with the nested
version in order to get cap21 done
i like it i think this raises
I like it I think this raises
interesting points though for the
preconditions
type that we're introducing because the
precondition type
is setting itself up to be like a
a flattened version or at least
that's that was my understanding
of the proposal it would definitely work
better i mean like in the
better I mean like in the
like five five years from now there will
be no benefit you know there will be
only disadvantages to doing
what we're doing now but like yes in the
short run it will be slightly smoother
to do
to do it with like a fully nested thing
it's just like just how when they were
choosing you know
not to fix the precedence of the bitwise
and and or operators when they went from
bcpl to c and introduced like the
logical double and double r
and they're like well you know yeah this
is broken but there's like hundreds of
c programmers in the world like we don't
want to you know break backwards
compatibility and you know
then we got to the point that even java
adopted those broken
let's get back
like i i don't know i i understand what
like I don't know I understand what
you're saying but at the same time
there is this like there is this need to
sort of
get something out there that people can
adopt and start using in order to well i
think there's
there's really there's use cases that
cap21 allows there's two there's two
problems here i think
problems here I think
one is i think people are like massively
one is I think people are like massively
mistaken about
you know how hard it is to adapt to
something where you have like multiple
versions of the structure right
and we already have an existence proof
that we did it with something which much
harder which was the accounts in order
to get the most accounts right so if we
survive that we can definitely survive
this
the second thing is i think people don't
the second thing is I think people don't
appreciate how much should be automated
because currently in our sdk
we're doing too much sort of manual
stuff right
and if you use sort of like more
meta programming friendly
xdr libraries like say you know
goxster the the one that i wrote or the
goxster the the one that I wrote or the
xdrpp that we're using
for Stellar you can actually automate
a lot of this stuff
and so what would be great is that since
there's like the places where people
actually care about this
probably if they do it all is when
they're manipulating the json and it's
not it would be easy to write just like
a few simple rules to like
make the json look the same or to
understand the json both ways
but you know what I'm just beating a
dead horse we'll i'll just
you know maybe a thing to do is like
introduce a a cap that's like a meta cap
but like this is how we should do
upgrades and
show some evidence for why in the future
it's better to actually version
structures
and put the versions at the top instead
of putting these ext things at the
bottom but
whatever
so general preconditions i think that's
so general preconditions I think that's
what was it lee
it was yeah asking about that yeah sorry
i think in general
I think in general
a it's a misleading name
yeah I'm I'm not really too fussed on
the on the name but i I'm just
the on the name but I I'm just
not the no it's not the name but the you
know right now it's hardcoded not
general
that's what i mean by it's a lie
that's what I mean by it's a lie
so i i thought it it was habit you
so I thought it it was habit you
wanted to become like pre-conditioned v1
or something like what do you want
no i would like make it an array of
no I would like make it an array of
you know static array or something
but we've already we've already let's
not relitigate that i know we do we
not relitigate that I know we do we
already we already discussed this
and and only introduced because
so actually they have a more of a
question related to the to the cap
because what have been the time i spent
because what have been the time I spent
actually in the past
few days was looking at the step
that is the payment channel protocol
trying to see okay like how is
that set related really to the cap
and it doesn't look like the set is
using
all of the functionalities that are in
the cap so that's kind of what you know
where I'm coming from it's like i feel
where I'm coming from it's like I feel
like it's
trying to guess on use cases that maybe
don't exist and at the same time i would
don't exist and at the same time I would
prefer to grab something that's that
can be extended
easily as opposed to right now because
we can
just we can just version it right
now if you mention it you break
everybody even even if we're doing the
fully nested there's no reason why we
can't version
the v3 thing that's dangling off the v2
right
like if you want to add a new condition
you would break all the
all consumers no because you would just
have a data structure that includes
yeah now you need to add access also
every single
condition
no you just need a function that always
converts to the latest version
but that can be done in a in an
automated way
could we just add a v2 can we just add
an extension on the end of the general
precondition so that we can v2 it
dangling
i mean we're going to have to if this
I mean we're going to have to if this
thing is
like we're totally bike shedding this
thing like and
did someone else wanna make a pass at
this and then like i'll
clean up the mess so that like because
otherwise I'm gonna do something that
like you guys aren't going to like
i i think it's worth just responding to
I I think it's worth just responding to
nico what you said about
you know the prototype channel protocol
doesn't use all of the fields
the only field it doesn't use right now
is ledger bounds it uses everything else
and i think that was a comment or
and I think that was a comment or
something that david and i
talked about very briefly was it doesn't
make sense to keep ledger bounds
because of that
why what is the argument for keeping
electric bounds the argument for keeping
the ledger bounds
is that the the the current payment
channels
are kind of probably safe enough
but they're not safe if there's like
you know something happens and there's
like you know an hour of downtime on the
network or something which you know
does actually happen periodically so
somebody who's paranoid
and wants to make create a payment
channel that is actually robust
to downtime of the network would also
need
the ledger bounds to be safe
if right because it never goes down all
your timers expire
but if you have this ledger bound thing
then
you have since the network wasn't
creating you ledgers while it was down
you still have some opportunity to
you know
get in there and prevent someone from
incorrectly closing the channel
personally I'm like not really that
concerned about changing the
like however we struck for the
preconditions like
we could make it an array of you know
of whatever of unions and that would be
fine or we could
make it a it doesn't really matter
honestly to me
i think like
I think like
at the end of the day like people are
caring much more about writing these
than reading them like the only thing
that really should be reading these at
the end of the day
is you know like if you for some
reason want to inspect something to make
sure that you're
signing the thing that you mean to be
signing
which i think is like a very very very
which I think is like a very very very
small subset of the code because a lot
of times you're assigning the
transactions that you're creating
yourself in which case you kind of know
what you're doing
and core and since like this stuff is
super isolated down to just like one
code path and core
and if you read the wrong branch and
you're you know signing code and then
you
you're just not going to sign that
transaction because you didn't know what
it meant
or your code didn't understand it so
like i don't feel like the risk of
like I don't feel like the risk of
blowing yourself up with edge cases here
is particularly high
so like let's not fight about it that
much
like we have unions on unions on all
sorts of stuff everywhere and
we just kind of you know transactions
for like for example i could send you a
for like for example I could send you a
v0 transaction if your code only knows
how to handle v1 transactions you're
going to blow up
so like we already serious problems
is
john is your comment about whether or
not we need ledger bounds
no no no no it's about like the whole
like nico saying like these aren't
really general
it's about that part i personally i
it's about that part I personally i
think
my point is kind of like the ludger band
seemed reasonable to me
the structure is reasonable to me we
could do a different structure and it
would also be reasonable to me
i don't see a lot of reason to hash it
I don't see a lot of reason to hash it
out for 20 minutes
so i is just it could you could could we
so I is just it could you could could we
just change the name from general
preconditions to something else
yeah i mean like if you named it like
yeah I mean like if you named it like
preconditions v1 or something
that would map up with the names that we
normally use
but like that sounds good doesn't really
matter to me
because if you didn't change it i would
because if you didn't change it I would
just stick like if you called in general
preconditions
i would just like if i needed to change
I would just like if I needed to change
it later i would just call it general
it later I would just call it general
preconditions of v2 and call today
so you know
can we can we add an extension as well
so that we just
follow the same dangling pattern i i
follow the same dangling pattern I i
just don't see a lot of reason to is
kind of
my point here like if you can't handle
the types of transactions you're trying
to sign you won't sign them
and like great if you didn't sign
something then you didn't agree to
something you didn't understand
so that's not that i mean the point
so that's not that I mean the point
is
it's already in union we've we've
already got like no preconditions and
time bounds right so
there's like if it turns out that we
need a different kind of preconditions
we can just add
a you know a preconditions v2 nobody
can handle the v
like the the what is it's the extension
to
like number two like case number two
right now anyway without modifying their
code
so like it's more about thinking about
what happens when you
change when you make a v2 of that thing
right
yeah that's what you're saying though
like if let's say that i make let's say
like if let's say that I make let's say
that like i add a new feature which is
that like I add a new feature which is
like
i don't know like time times ledger
I don't know like time times ledger
bound some
super crazy stupid condition that nobody
no how about number of ledgers that
aren't completely flawless number one
that's actually plausible number of
ledgers that aren't completely full
but like if you want to sign this you're
only going to sign transaction like if
you want to sign stuff and you want to
understand what you're signing
so you're checking for some condition
you're not going to sign stuff that you
don't understand
so like your code might barf but like
you won't have signed something that you
didn't understand so it's it's fine
like i don't understand what the bad
like I don't understand what the bad
case if you don't understand something
is you're just not going to agree to
something that
like i don't know i don't
like I don't know I don't
i don't think there's a bad case there i
I don't think there's a bad case there i
think the case that I'm concerned with
is the same case with
that we were talking to about with the
account extensions and that is that
every sdk every application that
pauses the xdr
now needs to look for time or now
let's take
a ledger bounce so say ledger amount
stays in the v1 then we add
v2 ledger bounds is now going to be in
two places so it needs to look for it in
both places
so there's the parsing case and then
there's also the creation case for the
transaction so sdks need to make a
decision about
you know what's the general best
practice for creating a transaction that
has ledger bounds do they use the new v2
that has ledger bounds or do they use
the new v1 or do they
only use the v2 when they're using one
of the new fields
and for the most part in a lot of
cases that probably won't matter but in
the cases where
somebody builds a transaction and then
they want to build that exact
same transaction and they want to expect
the sdk to build it the same way
that does matter because if an sk sdk
developer decides they're just always
going to use the latest version
structure then the transaction is going
to change every time they build that
same transaction
so we're actually in some ways we're
actually introducing it backwards
incompatibility
because we're saying like you
conceptually build the same transaction
but you know sdks may make it so that
you're actually building a different
transaction
i see what you're getting at here and
I see what you're getting at here and
like
that's a concern i don't totally
that's a concern I don't totally
think that that concern is necessarily
exactly
relevant here in the sense that like i
don't know what
promises sdks are making but like if an
sdk is promising to have that property
that we're not going to
retroactively change your stuff and
that's really a property of the sdk
because like if you're creating like a
semantic transaction i feel like the sdk
semantic transaction I feel like the sdk
just has a promise to do what it's
what you asked it to do but if you want
to have a stronger constraint like an
exact transaction you probably need a
different
vocabulary in the sdk for that but
putting that all aside like the thing
that I'm the thing that makes me scared
about like doing the nesting in this
context is like
you really really really don't want
to sign something that you don't
understand like imagine that you're
a guy and you're like I'm looking for
this ledger bound structure right which
i know to be in the in the case 2
I know to be in the in the case 2
extension
also known as general preconditions
but like imagine we're dangling a v3 off
of it
you have to actually like you can't just
call a function to look up the v2 one
and look out
look up the ledger numbers because you
actually have to check to make sure that
the v3 stuff
isn't there because if it is there
in nested you're going to sign something
that you didn't mean to sign
this is this is what i wrote in the code
this is this is what I wrote in the code
example in the agenda this is why it
kind of explodes and becomes
pretty awful so
as versions increment you're going to
get more and more of these to go
down down the rabbit hole of checking so
i really think like the much safer thing
I really think like the much safer thing
is to just
fail to like fail to sign things you
don't understand
and then update your code to understand
them instead of having to handle all
these cases of like oh like what if the
what i need something that's in the v4
what I need something that's in the v4
but the v3 doesn't
like but the v3 exists but i don't care
like but the v3 exists but I don't care
about anything there maybe the v5
like that gets really confusing and your
code can change out from under you
just as the extensions grow basically
and and i think that there's another
and and I think that there's another
thing
too which is that if we were really
trying to build this like little
language
of like you know have an array of little
precondition operations that can be
sort of like arbitrary or you know it
can be constantly extended
honestly we then we should try to unify
that with like the claimable balances
right because
we have like two different little
languages for
like preconditions right or if we do
have two different ones then it just
seems like
really needlessly complex for people to
like
learn how to use this so what we have is
simple
it is not it doesn't have to be the last
word because we can
change it by again using these unions
and it you know it covers like
all the things that we need to do
payment channels plus the thing that we
need if we want to do like super safe
payment channels which like there's
you know some people like might want to
be able like people could potentially
object that you know well on ethereum i
can make it safer by counting ledgers or
something
that like this is like a good set and
that we shouldn't let the perfect be the
enemy of the good we just do this and if
it turns out that it's like so
successful that we want like
12 different other slight variations on
the preconditions then then we can do a
an array of a programmable thing or
maybe we can update the claimable
balances and have like a general
language for describing preconditions
I'm pretty in sync with david on this
one personally
i think the argument is basically just a
I think the argument is basically just a
lot different than the
than the ledger entry stuff where we
already have something established that
we're already doing so
so what would that mean the next step is
for cap 21 like what is the revision
and who who's sort of taking it on
i think the only thing we said we might
I think the only thing we said we might
change is to change
general precondition to precondition v1
and that was it
that's it and we would keep ledger
bounds wait i thought we were also we
bounds wait I thought we were also we
had to move to the
extensions these like multiple
extensions
i think what john counted i thought what
I think what john counted I thought what
john and you were advocating for was no
extensions
i thought we were just talking about the
I thought we were just talking about the
preconditions not the not the
legendary extension there's two
questions right
one is should our preconditions be how
to do future accessibility for the
for the preconditions that are embedded
in the transaction and the other is
what to do about the ledger entry
extension
part or the count entry extension part
right
so john i believe you and i were talking
so john I believe you and I were talking
about just what goes in an actual
transaction the preconditions
right yeah that's the thing that i think
right yeah that's the thing that I think
is really dangerous to have these
accessor functions for that just like
look that don't necessarily look all the
way down to the bottom
right and so and so of course while
I'm happy to leave
cap 21 and this is it sounded like
we wanted like it sounded like the
everybody else wanted me to make like
these
to dangle accounting extension v3 off of
account extension
v2 yes yeah sorry i left that out
v2 yes yeah sorry I left that out
at least so i i guess i can just do that
at least so I guess I can just do that
fine
i'll change my stomach but i'll do it
and so that after that change we'll sort
of reevaluate cap 21.
are there any other questions that we
want to talk about about cap 21 right
now or should we move on to cat 40.
i did have one other question about this
I did have one other question about this
there was like something that struck me
as kind of strange
yeah so there there actually i had
yeah so there there actually I had
there like three lines i pulled out and
there like three lines I pulled out and
like all of them were basically about
the exact same thing and i kept thinking
the exact same thing and I kept thinking
that this was really weird
there's a sentence in the proposal that
reads
all transactions are validated sequence
numbers increased
and fees deducted before any operations
are executed
one consequence is that bump sequence
operations though they update an account
seek time and seek ledger
do not affect the validity of other
transactions in the same block
but that's that's actually not how
things work at all right now
so this is like either a very profound
change to the way that things work that
we'd have to recognize is a really big
change
even though i don't think people are
even though I don't think people are
using bump seek a lot
or it's a misunderstanding of the
current situation sorry the
audio is breaking up
sorry what's what's the line number
or what can what can i search for
or what can what can I search for
because
you broke up when you're saying which
yeah let me just tell you what to search
for if you search for
probably if you search for one
consequence is
that'll probably work let me see if that
works okay yeah
yeah i often find myself searching for
yeah I often find myself searching for
one consequences
right but that actually is what happens
currently right bump sequence
happens when you're executing operations
it doesn't happen when you're validating
operations
correct but like like let's imagine
that you have one source account
you submit transactions t1 and t2 at
sequence numbers
you know n plus one and n plus two
you get the point
and the behavior like both of them
are no ops they contain like
zero sorry i don't know if david can
zero sorry I don't know if david can
hear me at all right now
no i can't but
i can't hear david
you're breaking up david
oh crap hopefully I'm on summer when
like i can't
like I can't
i couldn't do this meeting but i want to
I couldn't do this meeting but I want to
move forward so
you have
can you guys hear me now yeah
okay where's the chat let's let's
take this one off
let's take this one to the mailing list
i think
yeah and i want to point something out
yeah and I want to point something out
that that doesn't actually impact
the behavior of the bump sequence the
payment channels are not actually
dependent on that
so i think that that what that breaks is
so I think that that what that breaks is
that it breaks
that right now you can have transactions
that
fail later because of that sequence
number
exactly like as you can imagine
you have to go on the mainland list at
this point you're bound from this call
there's no chat david not a new chat
that i see at least
that I see at least
so yeah there's not a ch there's not a
chat in this
interface one does not simply chat
during the protocol committee meeting
yeah it sounds like he can hear it so
yeah the concern is that you have
two transactions first transaction and
sequence number you know nn plus one and
then the first one does a bump sec
to n plus ten this invalidates the
second one that will fail with a bad
sequence number
but that will only happen at applied
you know like like when you actually
apply transactions
and the proposed change would actually
break that
if you are changing because it would
allow both transactions to execute
exactly if the second one has like some
funny
you know side effects in the proposal
now those side effects can actually
happen
and there are like some pretty pretty
important consequences to another
sentence in the proposal
which is that earlier in the proposal
there's a
two sentences that read a transaction
whose preconditions are not satisfied is
invalid
and must not execute even to fail
meaning it cannot change the source
account sequence number or charge a fee
but basically the example we just gave
you could imagine a like a like a
a seek gap thing min c
mint c gap and seek age whatever you
guys know what I'm talking about
and that would be broken by the
current bump seek semantics
because it would actually write it
during the apply time and then the later
one would be invalid at apply time and
therefore
fail so yeah
there's probably some like edge cases
here that we have to iron out either we
have to
say that these work in a different way
from other stuff or
yeah I'm not super sure you'll not allow
i think i thought what we talked about
I think I thought what we talked about
before was maybe not allowing more than
one
so like that source account can only be
in one transaction
but that's not necessarily easy well i
know it's
it's not but that's the only way you can
make this work i think but you know
make this work I think but you know
maybe there's a better I'm that's i
think the only way but
that might be other one another one not
that people can figure out
but it sounds like this is something
that will bear further thought
like it will require further thought to
sort of figure out what's
the best solution here and so i think
the best solution here and so I think
this is something that
someone maybe john if you should raise
on the mailing list
yeah i'll send me an email about it or
something
call me by any chance i don't
wait
actually no david you you have solar
flares or something
like I'm on a amount of crap you might
find out but like this is like super
important or can we have
this meeting next week or something i
knew this was like a bad
week for this this is like the week that
i wasn't gonna have a wired interest
I wasn't gonna have a wired interest
david didn't predict that it's true
did yes i i i apologize for
did yes I apologize for
trying to force it forward but i mean we
trying to force it forward but I mean we
can certainly this is super important
this is super important stuff that we're
talking about now so
there's no way zoom usually allows you
to like call and
how and and get in by phone but when i
click the thing it doesn't give me a
phone number
the crazy thing is i can hear everything
the crazy thing is I can hear everything
you're saying now so maybe just
tell us what you want to say
okay what i was gonna say is if you have
okay what I was gonna say is if you have
transaction n
and you have transaction n plus one
and n is a bump sequence
to like say n plus two both can
currently execute
yes they will both execute but no
currently
yeah guarantee the second one fails
exactly
how does it feel so you've actually
executed the bump sequence when you're
validating transactions
sequence suppose transaction n like
changes the signer or something right
you're still
charging a fee for transaction two right
but it fails exactly
yeah it fails so what I'm like
what kind of ends up happening is like
any check that we run during validity
checking
also gets run during during
transaction application
so basically you get all your validity
checks get done twice once
once kind of speculatively and once once
for real for real
and if it fails the validity check that
it does again during application it
fails
at application it's on the ledger it's
charged a fee and the sequence number is
consumed
yeah okay so what about this what about
saying like these preconditions always
get checked twice
if it passes the first time you get
charged the fee if you get
if it passes a second time
you then can execute that that's fine
that would basically map up what
we're saying but the question is like
does that break your stuff
no i mean it's a little more
no I mean it's a little more
expensive but it's like
well the age thing that's what john
was talking about right yeah i don't
was talking about right yeah I don't
know if you were able to hear me at that
point but like
this would this potentially messes up
the the the seek age or seek gap i can't
the the the seek age or seek gap I can't
remember
so maybe we check the age things only
once in the other fields twice
and we like rearrange the data structure
if it needs to be such that it's very
obvious which section is the stuff that
gets
checked once and which section gets
checked twice
in all honesty like there could be some
sanity to
to basically saying like hey like these
preconcept precondition things we only
need to check them once
but you're saying that this would
currently allow things to succeed
where currently they fail
well right now the preconditions aren't
anything that can be
that can change state like time
is time it's all checked against the
close time so it
shouldn't matter but
yeah they can't yeah they can't yeah the
thing is that right now we don't have a
concept
of checks
that are done at apply time
before like like while we do like the
fee processing for example like we don't
have that kind of concept
which is i think what we're talking
which is I think what we're talking
about like a phase that is like
let's do all those checks that are like
on the you know the
only done once per block
before anything else happens
that would actually be really easy to
implement like a bed that would be easy
but that doesn't exist today right
agreed yeah and i think
agreed yeah and I think
i wonder if it would do something funny
I wonder if it would do something funny
also in terms of like
results
oh yeah there'd probably be some
annoying cases to handle there
but like because we don't have a place
right now to
express that there would be a failure in
that phase for
like for horizon I'm thinking
like the mirror doesn't let you fail
early like that hold on wait do we
really
not like early like it doesn't
there's like it
it applies at apply time you get the
results but you don't
you wouldn't know that it's a failure
that happened because of a
an early check there's something kind of
interesting going on here though like
i guess the real point would be like
I guess the real point would be like
these precondition checks
are something that should be done at
validation time but not at apply time
because if they succeeded at validation
time
i guess you're right yeah yeah that
I guess you're right yeah yeah that
could also be the
that could be the the change right the
new like the updated thing is that we
have certain checks that are only
done at validation time yeah
i bet that could be useful for other
I bet that could be useful for other
reasons so i mean the problem
reasons so I mean the problem
the annoying thing is that okay well one
thing i mean it wouldn't be
thing I mean it wouldn't be
i mean like arguably the behavior that
I mean like arguably the behavior that
I'm describing here
is not like terrible it's just
unfortunately like a slightly more
permissive
than what we currently do it might not
be inherently
fatal so so david one of the things
that's actually annoying to do
those checks at validation time only is
that
we're supposed to have a
i don't we're supposed to have a as
I don't we're supposed to have a as
more or less as an invariant that
those checks don't depend
on let's just state i mean like they
on let's just state I mean like they
only depend on sequence number i guess
only depend on sequence number I guess
right but you're still literally you're
you're loading the account entry right
yeah that's the only thing but like if
we wanted to
have like maybe other dependencies there
like in terms of checks
i guess you could everything depends on
I guess you could everything depends on
either the ledger header or
the ledger entry there's nothing you
don't need to fetch any
you know right cross lines or any other
kind of state so
i think that we should still be okay in
I think that we should still be okay in
terms of no
extra database accesses
i don't i don't think that's a big issue
I don't I don't think that's a big issue
i think this is something we can handle
I think this is something we can handle
in a
in a sane way i think it's just
in a sane way I think it's just
something i think i just think about let
something I think I just think about let
me just like
address it like i can make a pass of
address it like I can make a pass of
this and i can propose something
this and I can propose something
that is that is
both compatible with what we're doing
today and has kind of the least overhead
like avoids double checking
if it's sane to do so i have to think it
if it's sane to do so I have to think it
through a little bit more but i could
through a little bit more but I could
have
you know something by next week or
next week i could do something but
next week I could do something but
i mean that feels like the logical next
I mean that feels like the logical next
step to capturing one to me yeah
okay so i have to address this and i
okay so I have to address this and i
have to address the
the nested ext structures
and i think yeah like with this new
and I think yeah like with this new
condition like one of the
like i guess that that paragraph or
like I guess that that paragraph or
whatever section in the cap
will be where you can talk about
if we have like specific rules around
multiple transactions
that maybe you want to
like where you want to allow you know
like
certain combinations like what I'm
thinking here is that if you have two
transactions
with this min age requirement
i think only one of them can be valid
because otherwise you're going to break
the payment channel like the you know
the assumption that
you have a grace period every time
you process a transaction
for the payment channel protocol that's
a good point also
well okay i will i will i think
well okay I will I will I think
that's good that's a good change i think
that's good that's a good change I think
we're going to highlight this
this specific environment that we're
going to go after here that's the same
environment that we need for
the transaction queue policy exactly
okay so i think i need is there anything
okay so I think I need is there anything
else because i i want to make sure we
else because I want to make sure we
discuss cap 40.
no i think we should move on to count
no I think we should move on to count
40. i mean there's only four minutes
40. I mean there's only four minutes
left so
let's let's jump to cap 40 because i
feel like there's a clear path with cap
cat 40.
what is the let me see that so cap
40 just trying to find myself
so for anyone who's watching this
proposal allows participants in a
payment channel to
safely exchange signatures for a set of
up to three transactions in a single
step
it looks like there are some open
questions
several but we don't have time that much
time so what is the most important
question that you need answered here
lee so i think i think
lee so I think I think
i guess the question i've been most
I guess the question i've been most
interested in is nico raised
you know is this the right structure are
there other things like local trees
that we could be using and then maybe i
can add a little more detail on
i mean i have that on the mailing list
I mean I have that on the mailing list
right like that the the question there
is really
so i looked at so the so the the
so I looked at so the so the the
proposal i think makes sense with the
proposal I think makes sense with the
current proposal of payment channels
because you only have like a very small
set of participants if you are looking
at
what you would need if you have more
participants or
maybe it's like those multi-hop things
or whatever
would that make this like
insufficient
and then you need at that point like
some way of expressing a bigger set
like a miracle tree maybe i don't know
like a miracle tree maybe I don't know
something else
i mean i think that what we have now is
I mean I think that what we have now is
so general like
yes you can't do merkel trees but you
can like interoperate with like ethereum
or like other blockchains like it's
so not only does it like save entire
round trips
and like eliminate a whole bunch of foot
guns on these payment channel
protocols but it also like in such a
straightforward way adds support for
essentially
we can basically do htlc's with other
blockchains without even the hash part
right like you can literally like just
kind of tie transactions together across
blockchains
so from my point of view this is just
like completely obvious in retrospect
except you know obviously it's brilliant
because like nobody
thought of it until now but like this
like it's just it's so
straightforwardly like exactly what you
want in so many situations where it's
like i want this texture only if this
like I want this texture only if this
executes fine if you execute this then
sign the other thing
right and it's like we're done right so
it's so simple and
so useful
i also had like a very similar reaction
I also had like a very similar reaction
to this when we suggested i was like oh
to this when we suggested I was like oh
that's very clever
no no like no i mean i agree like i i
no no like no I mean I agree like I i
think it makes total sense for the
for what we're trying to do right now is
it's more
the question for me is is that going to
be durable
for in terms of design for the payment
channel because i know for for example
channel because I know for for example
in lightning oh i think it didn't go
in lightning oh I think it didn't go
that far because
no no no but like for in in the context
of payment channels
they didn't do that with lightning in
lightning for example
because they need a lot more
to unlock a lot more transactions with
one
one transaction no i think honestly i
one transaction no I think honestly i
think they just didn't think of it
right because you could just say if you
have a three hop like lightning payment
you could just like have to sign
you know all three hops in order to cash
it in
yeah but so you need three yeah you need
this transaction needs to have
three additional payloads right
sure so that's why this doesn't scale
that's the part where it doesn't scale
so that's
that's my question let me ask you a
question nico
like sometimes there exists a world
where it makes sense to have something
that's like
simple and easy to use but not
necessarily scalable and something
that's
harder to use but highly scalable i feel
harder to use but highly scalable I feel
like the merkle tree falls into that
category of like it's obviously much
more scalable but it's also
not as easy friend user friendly and not
as easy to fit into
like the current Stellar model so like
well maybe
a miracle tree of a miracle tree of one
element is
the same thing right that's kind of what
maybe i
i don't know that's a
it's more like a if the design relies
heavily
on such a construct I'm more questioning
the design of the payment channel
but honestly you could do the merkle
tree it's just the merkle tree would
have to be on the ethereum side
right but like
but you know obviously we don't have
like logic to interpret merkle trees but
the point is like because you're
signing arbitrary data right you could
do something such that like
a single payment on Stellar like a usdc
payment on Stellar could like unlock
like 20 you know usdc payments on
ethereum right and do some kind of
complicated multi-way exchange that way
david if we like
let's so your point is well taken that
if the merkle tree part was on the
ethereum side perhaps this would work
there
so is the argument you're making that
the construct that lee proposes
is sufficient for the merkle tree case
assuming that Stellar could also handle
the merkle trees
or is the payload not big enough or you
know whatever
i mean you know to be honest the the
I mean you know to be honest the the
things that
the cases that i think come to mind
the cases that I think come to mind
involve
multiple signers rather than
signatures on multiple transactions
right because you could always on
Stellar you know we have a different way
of unlocking transactions which is like
twiddle sequence numbers and use like
the
or the and use preconditions so
so from my point of view the real the
real bottleneck here is that just like i
don't want to add like
a gazillion signatures just because
verification is expensive right so if we
if we somehow change the transaction
fees to like
also include the number of signature
verifications or something
like i could see like there's a very
like I could see like there's a very
obvious way to extend this to have like
more than two
more than one or two signatures
well actually so actually that's
related to
yeah that question on number of
signature verifications actually that's
sorry i missed that as part of the
sorry I missed that as part of the
capturing in one conversation
because you know you guys added this the
the
extra sign at the same time then kat von
d kat von d and i didn't
d kat von d and I didn't
i was not sure on which cap was tracking
I was not sure on which cap was tracking
you know what
one thing we could do because in the
context of
cap 40 it's just another sign i mean the
cap 40 it's just another sign I mean the
x-ray signature it doesn't matter
actually because it's
it's it's it's being processed like any
other signature
right but we don't charge for signatures
do we thought we just charged for
operation
but for so yeah so so now going back
though on to cap 21 but how it's being
used in a new way
right that is you can have like those
is it two or three
additional
signature checks i would argue that
signature checks I would argue that
those should be
counted towards the 20 signatures limit
that we have
on a transaction okay that's fine
right because that way we don't have to
change the model in terms of
like fees or anything because right now
it's
i mean if we are going with the
I mean if we are going with the
did you see what i mean like i think it
did you see what I mean like I think it
gets too complicated done
right and that's a quick cap 21 change
because cap 40 just introduces the
concept of this new type of yeah
of cyano i also want to say we're over
of cyano I also want to say we're over
time so i think we're going to have to
time so I think we're going to have to
cut this
but i do i mean i feel like with cap
but I do I mean I feel like with cap
21 there's a clear path forward and it's
that david is going to make those
two revisions with cap 40 is there an
easy next step that we can take here
just to keep this moving keep pushing
is there a discussion that we need to
have either synchronously later
or async on the Stellar dev list about
this question
i think we should move to accept cap 40
I think we should move to accept cap 40
today
yeah i feel i feel like the the argument
yeah I feel I feel like the the argument
about you know would it be better if
it's a merkle tree this is a little bit
like one or both
you know this is very simple and it
does it's you know
only really useful in specific
constrained
cases like the payload has to be below a
certain size that there's a
there's a lot of constraints and so if
the constraints
are a match this is a great use and
then if the constraints aren't and we
have use cases that
need that are outside those constraints
then maybe we need some other type of
signer like a mogul tree signer
and then you know with that sign like
comes a whole lot of costs and things we
have to figure out
bigger problems to solve
i mean like the only reason i would say
I mean like the only reason I would say
it
should not be accepted yet is because we
don't
like it doesn't make sense to have kept
fully
in the abstract it's actually in the
context of cap 21.
actually it does make sense in the
abstract the same way we have hashtag
signers it's just like a better baby
like who is going to use that
anybody who wants to like anybody who
wants to like tie multiple but who is
this anybody
my point is that caps what we have in
the you know
in the in the description of a cap is
that you have to have the use case
before we actually go and
spend the work on implementing those
things
so you're advocating for holding off on
accepting count 40 until yeah i mean
accepting count 40 until yeah I mean
it looks fine right like from what we're
saying it's fine it's more of a
like we're not going to spend time
implementing it if you know if we
don't have the full story
but so we could just make a soft sort of
promise okay we're planning to accept
yeah this one is like right after we
accept cap 21 we're looking good
yeah so ideally our next protocol
meeting whatever that is we can accept
both cap 21
exactly yeah i'd rather do that than
than try to do this
piecemeal thing because the point of all
this is like to
to get something that makes sense for
payment channels
yeah sure but i do think cap40 is just
yeah sure but I do think cap40 is just
it's it's so simple and it has so many
additional uses it's just like a
fantastic
thing in and of itself but actually one
thing i would love to see
thing I would love to see
in the cap 40 proposal would be a use
case for cap 40 that doesn't depend on
cap
21 that would be cool i would like that
21 that would be cool I would like that
lee can you add like an ethereum like
swap
sure okay so that's all that cap40 will
that's like basically the requirement
for cap 40 is lee's going to add a use
case that doesn't reply
require cap 21 rely on caption one the
goal for next time is to
review the changes that david makes to
cap 21 ideally to get
cap 21 shortly followed by cap 40
accepted cool cool
i think anything else we'll just look to
I think anything else we'll just look to
the Stellar dead mailing list
and everyone here thank you so much for
joining thanks for your time thanks for
thinking this through anyone out there
who's watching thank you so much
you know it's always it's always
great to have you here and feel free to
join that
dev mailing list if you want to see
these discussions and participate in
them yourselves
there's a link to it in the show
description all right sorry we ran over
everybody but thanks again for your time
bye
you